We're going to change gears a little bit.
And there is a topic that if I was gonna
talk about unit and component testing,
I technically have to talk about,
and I've alluded to it, so
I also have to talk about it.
But I think should be also like
Cover's reports on the other end,
should be treated with a certain
amount of suspicion, right.
And it's mocking, stubbing,
spying test doubles,
1000 different terms like unit integration
and end to end test, all those terms.
At this point there are people who
definitely know what the difference
between all those things are between
a test double and a mock and
a stub because it's their personal brand.
For most of us, you can probably
just use them interchangeably right?
Again, this is a test on making
maintainable large code bases,
a full-on unit testing course will get
further into the weeds, but in my general
day-to-day practice as a practitioner,
you use them interchangeably.
It doesn't really matter,
don't worry about it.
The concept is the same which is,
you should probably
only have your tests fail on
stuff that you control, right?
And so sometimes you need to
fake things you don't control.
You don't want your test breaking
because the backend is down, right?
They should be on call for
that and they should fix it.
Or there are things that
you don't wanna do.
A lot of the good use cases for
mocking and
stubbing are more
applicable to the back-end.
For instance, you probably don't
want to hit the Twilio API
to send a text message as
part of your test suite.
You mock that one.
You say like, did you get a fake thing?
Did you get requests?
Pretend like you're Twilio and
that you sent the text message, but one,
that API costs money, and
sends text messages, [LAUGH], right?
You don't need your test to fail
because you're out of money for
things you shouldn't be paying for anyway.
You should pay for Twilio, but not in
your test suite, so stuff like that.
Like running a credit card,
probably don't want to do that
as part of your CICD process.
Mock and stub that out.
Front-end engineers you got less
of a permission structure, right?
Yes, the back end API's, but I'm gonna
caveat that later, so good luck there.
Other than maybe talking to an API,
that's basically it.
But again, and we'll also see that if you
had dependency injection and you were
able to pass in the function that should
call the API, you could just have normally
passed in an empty function and not
needed to mock or stub anything, right?
And we can argue is that really a mock or
stub?
I'm not having those
conversations right now.
But I will show you how to do it, but
I would say every time you do it, and
if you are doing a code review and
you see one of these lines, you have my
permission to, in the code review be
go like, what you doing here, right?
Are you sure you need to do this?
But let's talk about it, I think it's
super useful, but it's a way to basically,
replace functionality and either use
something fake or in a few cases,
be able to have some introspection
on what's going on, cool.
So we got mocks, we got spies.
I think I'm gonna start out with just
kind of a slightly silly example,
because I think it'll prove the point,
I think.
And I think this is the file that I added
randomly that was causing some problems
earlier.
Let's go back to the main branch,
not my weird actions branch,
discard my auto update, right on.
And I got this directory called logjam,
and logjam is silly.
It's got this arithmetic object.
It's also got log,
which is kind of like console log,
but more different, it's console log.
It just calls console log.
You just pass log error, warner info as
the first argument, it's console log.
And I've got this ridiculous
test file in here,
in order to just play around a little bit.
This is basically a sandbox
to play around in.
So if you're using vitest
you have this vi object.
If you are using jest,
you will change two things.
You will change the word vitest to jest,
you will change this vi to jest.
Everything else that I do
will be the same, sweet.
So if we grabbed that,
is it export default, export log.
Right, this is a function that I can
pull in, and I can do stuff with.
One of the things that I can
do is I can choose to either
mock something or spy on something, right?
A mock is super interesting.
The way that you write it is a const,
And this returns a function.
This function out of the box
doesn't do anything.
It's just a no op, empty function, right?
What I can do here is I
can do mock, mock,
one more, mock.
We're first talking about the good cases
where I'm okay with you mocking and
stubbing, to be clear.
And that's cool, cool, cool.
And we could then do stuff like,
expect(mock).to, HaveBeenCalled, right?
So for instance, let's say we have
a function of, like we talked about,
it'd be great if you could pass in
the thing that makes the API call,
o something where it's like, hey,
I'm gonna give you a callback, right?
And what you probably wanna do is verify,
hey,
did my function that was supposed to call
a callback, did it call the callback?
Well, how would you do that,
right, normally?
Well, you're all very smart,
I'm sure you could figure it out.
You might keep some
weird variables around,
and then in the callback,
it would iterate the int,
and then you would check to see
that the number was a number.
Again, you run into who tests
the unit test at that point, right?
If you mess up the logic there and
your test fails, life's not good.
So we can go ahead and we can see
this file here and go over to test.
That's not even the right test.
I can do,
Vitest, what was this filename called?
test.ts.
>> Well, it should still let wrap,
yeah, it should still work though.
>> It doesn't hit the dot.
Move test.
>> Cool.
>> You still have your to-do though.
>> Gotta remove my to-do.
Gotta reopen that file.
Life is hard.
Cool, move that to-do so that it passes.
And you can see that
this toHaveBeenCalled.
So one of the things that a mock and
a spy does, when I said it was
an empty function, I wasn't lying.
I was, but I wasn't really lying,
I was spiritually honest.
It's a function that doesn't do anything,
but
it does keep track of every
time that it was called, right?
And it also keeps track of the arguments
that it was called with, right?
And so if you're passing a callback, or
you have another function that you're
expecting, hey, this thing should
call fetch with the right API, or
it should call, you might choose
to mock out local storage, right?
Things that you don't really have access
to in the browser, that you don't control,
you wanna make sure that under the hood,
this thing should have put this thing in
local storage or
it should have called Fetch.
It should have called this other library,
it should have called the Twilio SDK
with these arguments, right?
Mocking something will allow you to
do that and that's testing your code.
Just faking out the world because you
don't like it is not a great use of mocks,
because like it'll get your test
passing at what cost, right,
at the cost of your code is
divorced from reality, right?
So unless you are truly using it
to exercise and test the code,
I would be suspicious of mocking, right?
There are probably better ways to do it,
but toHaveBeenCalled.
And then we can do,
that's the big font here is called with,
toHaveBeenLastCalledWith, toHaveBeenCalled
a certain number of times,
toHaveBeenCalledOnce, super
interesting toHaveBeenCalled,
toHaveBeenLastCalledWith.
That test fails, cuz you can see
it was expecting one argument,
an array of one with that word in it.
It was called with an empty,
And now it passes, right?
So if this was code that calls code that
calls code, but maybe you're passing it
in, right, and you wanna follow it down
the chain, you could test that function.
It's basically a way to look
at that thing and see it.
And that's a really
powerful use of a mock.
If you needed it to also do something,
you could pass that in here as well.
So you could say something like,
Just until the other ones pass,
I'll make that optional.
Right, so
now you can see now it will do a thing.
I'll show you just the thing that I'm
not going to talk about otherwise.
This is something that I use a lot,
especially as I'm developing,
I'll use a snapshot.
If you don't return stuff,
you don't see it.
So even my dumb example,
my test helped, right?
That's my snapshot.
A lot of times if I'm
working on something,
I wanna make sure it does
the same thing as I refactor it.
You can use a snapshot or an inline
snapshot, snapshot writes to a file,
inline snapshot puts it right there.
And as you're iterating, you're like,
cool, I don't have tests for this function
this is what we talked about before that
80%, this is a thing that does things.
I wanna pass in some callbacks.
I wanna make sure it does the same
thing as I refactor it, and
then I'll write the real tests or
something like that.
It's a great way to get you up there.
Is it the best testing
strategy in the world?
No, you saw me before when I
saw an outdated snapshot and
I just ran update snapshots and
moved on with my life.
Super brittle, but I think in the same
way, I don't use code coverage,
necessarily, as a real analysis of
whether or not I have good tests.
I don't use snapshots as real tests.
But I do sometimes use them for
things I don't totally understand and
I'm still figuring out.
I just need it to work the same way.
I will use it as I'm developing a lot,
and I think that's okay,
too, but being like, this is easy,
I don't have to actually write real tests.
I'll just snapshot everything, until
the next person blows them all away and
why do you even have these tests?
But you can see that it will act
like a real function in this case.
I can keep track of how many
times it's been called,
what it's been called with, right?
And like I said, you could choose
to mock out third party libraries.
And I'll show you a better way to do this,
why I'm not doing a whole example on it.
You could choose to mock out Axios or
node-etch or whatever you want, and
then be like, cool, Axios should
have gotten called with this API.
And you don't have to figure out how to
detangle your code, cuz if it's tightly
coupled, you might not have access
to a thing that calls fetch, right?
My argument,
if this is a true course on testing,
we spend a whole lot of time talking about
mocking cuz I think it's somewhat useful.
I will repeat the previous statement
cuz it makes my point better.
If your code is coupled together, you can
use mocks so you can get test coverage.
This is a course on a large application,
untangle your code, [LAUGH] right?
It's the real answer.
A mock will do the trick for you,
there are other things you can watch that
will show you all the depths of mocking.
But I should mention it because it exists.
You should use it when you need it but
you should always treat it with suspicion.
And you should not be like,
I'll just mock out everything because you
are divorcing yourselves from reality.